# A text mining approach to understand the reaction of different media channels towards Coronavirus outbreak in the USA
Executive summary

Determining the sentiments of various media outlets is important to understand the differences between platforms towards coronavirus. As the distinction grows between traditional news media and social media in terms of news consumption, it is important to investigate how the content differs between news providers. This research looks at the content of different medias to learn the focus of each providers in delivering the news. The topic inspected in this study is COVID-19 and its expressed sentiments on Twitter, Reddit posts and in news articles, the topic of our research is COVID-19 in the US.

The research was conducted with the following steps: Data collection, Data cleaning and Pre-processing, Keyword analysis, Topic modeling, and Sentiment analysis. This approach was attained by modifying the CRISP-DM framework. The data was gathered using web-scraping technique with R and Python programming from three sources (News, Reddit, Twitter). After data cleaning, the `Quanteda` package in R was used for text analysis. Subsequently, the data was explored with co-occurrence analysis to find the connection between the keyword "Coronavirus" and other words. Then, we applied topic modelling to identify distinct topics. In sentiment analysis, we chose a lexicon, calculated sentiments scores and looked at the shift in sentiments.

The research has discovered some connection between three media sources, although there are some limitations. Social medias are reflecting more on people´s sentiments towards the situation while News articles are more about updating information. One conclusion we can draw is that although the focuses are different, all media channels have relatively similar changing pattern after the lockdown, where topics that haven’t existed before increased. This brought up a hypothesis that there is a link between News & Twitter topics, however the evidences are not strong enough for us to have a solid conclusion. There appeared to be a correlation between news articles and Twitter posts while Reddit came out as the source with the most negative sentiment scores. Although there are certain limitations, our research can be used in real-world scenario, for example the government can monitor the next pandemic or crisis by defining related topics to tackle different aspects of arisen problems.

